Data on Amenorrhea from Clinical Trial of Contracepting Women.

Note: This dataset contains a variable for Amenorrhea Status at Previous Occasion
and a Response Indicator (Observed/Missing) for Amenorrhea Status.

Source: Table 1 (page 168) of Machin et al. (1988).
With permission of Elsevier.

Reference: Machin D, Farley T, Busca B, Campbell M and d'Arcangues C. (1988).  
Assessing changes in vaginal bleeding patterns in contracepting women.  
Contraception, 38, 165-179.

Description:

The data are from a longitudinal clinical trial of contracepting women.
In this trial women received an injection of either 100 mg or 150 mg
of depot-medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) on the day of randomization 
and three additional injections at 90-day intervals. There was a final 
follow-up visit 90 days after the fourth injection, i.e., one year after 
the first injection.
Throughout the study each woman completed a menstrual diary that recorded any
vaginal bleeding pattern disturbances. The diary data were used to determine 
whether a women experienced amenorrhea, the absence of menstrual bleeding 
for a specified number of days.
A total of 1151 women completed the menstrual diaries and the
diary data were used to generate a binary sequence for each woman
according to whether or not she had experienced amenorrhea in the
four successive three month intervals. 
In clinical trials of modern hormonal contraceptives, pregnancy is
exceedingly rare (and would be regarded as a failure of the
contraceptive method), and is not the main outcome of interest in
this study. Instead, the outcome of interest is a binary response 
indicating whether a woman experienced amenorrhea in the four successive 
three month intervals. 
A feature of this clinical trial is that there was substantial dropout.
More than one third of the women dropped out before the completion of the trial.


Variable List:

ID, Dose (0=Low,1=High), Occasion, Amenorrhea Status, Amenorrhea Status at Previous Occasion,
Response Indicator.

Note: Amenorrhea Status (1=Amenorrhea,0=No Amenorrhea,.=Missing).
      Response Indicator (1=If Amenorrhea Status Observed, 0=If Amenorrhea Status Missing)
